While most preparedness guides and plans address household or individual
needs, these guidelines will provide information on how to plan together with
your neighbors. Arrange a neighborhood get-together, making sure you invite
people from different groups and backgrounds (including those who speak
different languages or live in different kinds of housing). This may mean going
door-to-door or using block captain, PTA, faith-based, or other existing
networks to make sure you reach everyone. Together, neighbors should:
1. Identify important local hubs
● Identify neighborhood hubs and emergency centers such as schools,
libraries, community centers, or other places that are designated as
official emergency shelters.
● Identify “unofficial” hubs that may prove important in a disaster or
emergency, such as corner stores, restaurants, or parks where people
may look for resources or gather.
To Do: Make and share a list of “hub” sites, and make plans to store water,
batteries, medical, and other “stay-kit” emergency supplies there. Create a
living collaborative document that lists which supplies are stored where and
when they need to be replaced/refreshed.
2. Identify local responders
● Who holds the keys to the hubs (gathering places) that neighbors have
identified? Where do they live and how can they be contacted?
● Who are residents with skill sets that could be important in an
emergency (medical or first aid training, amateur radio or other
communication tools, child care skills, etc.)
● Survey the group for other skills that people can offer (translation,
cooking, light construction, etc.)
To Do: Make a list of local critical responders and their contact information
(address, phone number, email). Distribute it among the planning team and/or
put a shared living document online.
3. Identify vulnerable sites

● Day care, elder care
● Assisted living and medical facilities
● Schools
4. Identify vulnerable populations or individuals
● Individuals who have mobility challenges
● Individuals or communities where different languages are spoken
● Areas or individuals with limited access to communication or other
resources
To Do: Delegate responsibility for contacting designated vulnerable individuals
or people with responsibility for managing vulnerable sites. For example, who
will contact care facilities and see if they need help? Who is looking after the
needs of independently living individuals with mobility challenges?
5. Identify potential hazards
● Wiring that could fall down or be severed
● Places that are likely to flood
● Places with vulnerable (basement) generators
● Roads or highways likely to become blocked or flooded
● Places that would be impacted particularly by energy or communication
failures (high-rise housing, schools, community centers or medical
facilities)
To Do: Find out if your area has an active CERT or VOAD (volunteer disaster
response organization) already coordinating with local government
preparedness agencies (usually via municipal or county emergency
management offices). What potential hazards have they identified? Think
about how to align official response plans with your neighborhood’s efforts.
6. Identify Community Assets
● Food and bottled water supplies
● Soup kitchen or temporary cooking facilities
● Generators and fuel
● Blankets, linens, mattresses
● Shelter and sleeping spaces
● First aid kits
● Skilled staff

● Radio stations and FM transmitters
● Ham Radio
● Hand crank two way radio (TBD)
● Satellite internet dish
● Portable Network Kits
● LoRa Mesh
To Do: Map out where in your neighborhood there are potential emergency
resources. Document in the Resiliency Assessment Worksheet and make sure
to establish the necessary relationships, roles and responsibilities that are
needed to deploy assets in an emergency situation.
